Add BEAT MAKER Workshop (#1322)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/beat_maker/README.md

---
name: 'Beat Maker'
description: 'Make a web drumpad/beat maker in HTML/CSS & jQuery'
author: '@emmanuel39hanks'
---

# Creating a DrumPad/Beat Maker in HTML, CSS & jQuery

![Beat Maker Preview](https://i.ibb.co/r0JLpWB/Annotation-2020-09-20-200719.png)

_^ Preview of the DrumPad/Beat Maker we are going to be creating_

In this workshop, you’re going to create a drumpad/beat maker that plays actual sounds, in less than 230 lines of code.

> [Link to demo](https://AssuredStudiousNotifications--five-nine.repl.co)

Reviewer: This project was created anonymously, which means repl.it will delete it soon—can you re-publish with a repl.it account?

## Getting started

> We’re going to be using HTML, CSS & jQuery(a JavaScript library designed to simplify HTML DOM tree traversal and manipulation, as well as event handling, CSS animation, and Ajax).

Reviewer: This would be a great spot to link to jQuery’s site. I also think folks won’t know what those techniques are—maybe using a phrase like “changing elements on a webpage” or something?

```css
h1 {
  color: #000;
  font-size: 5vw;
  letter-spacing: 6px;
}

.pad {
  width: 500px;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: space-between;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
}

.box {
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
  margin: 10px 0;
  box-shadow: 0 8px 6px -6px black;
  background-color: #444;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  font-size: 20px;
  color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.4);
  user-select: none;
}

.pad-1,
.pad-2,
.pad-3,
.pad-4,
.pad-5,
.pad-6,
.pad-7,
.pad-8,
.pad-9,
.pad-10,
.pad-11,
.pad-12 {
  border: 2px solid;
}
```

If you run your code nothing has changed, that because we are using class to group our HTML elements, let's go back to our `index.html` and to our `<div>` we will want to do the following:

```html
<div class="pad">
  <div class="box pad-1">A</div>
  <div class="box pad-2">B</div>
  <div class="box pad-3">C</div>
  <div class="box pad-4">D</div>

  <div class="box pad-5">E</div>
  <div class="box pad-6">F</div>
  <div class="box pad-7">G</div>
  <div class="box pad-8">H</div>

  <div class="box pad-9">I</div>
  <div class="box pad-10">J</div>
  <div class="box pad-11">K</div>
  <div class="box pad-12">L</div>
</div>
```

> ![Preview](https://i.ibb.co/TLFcmvk/aasdasd.png)

Reviewer: Can you use more descriptive alt text throughout? If the images are showing different things, the alt text should be different
```suggestion
![Preview of HTML with layout CSS applied, the pads are in a grid but all gray](https://i.ibb.co/TLFcmvk/aasdasd.png)
```

And finally when we run our code again it should look like this.

> So far so good we are now going to add colors and make hovering effects, unactive or active states, to make it stand out and make the experience better, we will do that with the following code:

Reviewer: The grammar/commas here are a bit off

```css
.pad-1 {
  background-color: #e5446d;
}

.pad-2 {
  background-color: #44aae5;
}

.pad-3 {
  background-color: #e044e5;
}

.pad-4 {
  background-color: #4f97c7;
}

.pad-5 {
  background-color: #7fe544;
}

.pad-6 {
  background-color: #e56444;
}

.pad-7 {
  background-color: #44e595;
}

.pad-8 {
  background-color: #11b619;
}

.pad-9 {
  background-color: #44e559;
}

.pad-10 {
  background-color: #3679df;
}

.pad-11 {
  background-color: #df581a;
}

.pad-12 {
  background-color: #ff0496;
}

.box:hover {
  background-color: lighten(#444, 10%);
  cursor: pointer;
}

.box:active {
  background-color: darken(#444, 10%);
  transform: scale(1.1);
  transition: all 0.2s;
}

.active {
  background-color: darken(#444, 10%);
  transform: scale(1.1);
  transition: all 0.2s;
}
```

![Preview](https://i.ibb.co/LpYQY6N/asdasdasdasdasdasd.png)

And finally we are done with our CSS, it now looks good and feels good but when you click on the buttons, they are clickable but we have no sound, what we need to do is now write our JavaScript/jQuery code that will get us sound.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adding audio interactivity with JS

```

  var padOne = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/SD0025.mp3'
  )
  var padTwo = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/SD0010.mp3'
  )
  var padThree = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/SD0000.mp3'
  )
  var padFour = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/RS.mp3'
  )
  var padFive = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/OH25.mp3'
  )
  var padSix = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/MA.mp3'
  )
  var padSeven = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/CY0010.mp3'
  )
  var padEight = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/CH.mp3'
  )
  var padNine = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/CB.mp3'
  )
  var padTen = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/BD0010.mp3'
  )
  var padEleven = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/BD0000.mp3'
  )
  var padTwelve = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/CP.mp3'
  )
})
```

> So we are almost done all we need to do is use the jQuery selector which is `$` to select classes and check for actions, we want to load and play a sound when the mouse key is down and we will do that with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are almost done—all we need to do is use the jQuery selector (`$`) to select classes and check for actions. We want to load and play a sound when the mouse key is down, which we can implement like this:
```

  )
  var padEleven = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/BD0000.mp3'
  )
  var padTwelve = new Audio(
    'https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/CP.mp3'
  )

  // Add the following code
  $('.pad-1').mousedown(function () {
    padOne.load()
    padOne.play()
  })

  $('.pad-2').mousedown(function () {
    padTwo.load()
    padTwo.play()
  })

  $('.pad-3').mousedown(function () {
    padThree.load()
    padThree.play()
  })

  $('.pad-4').mousedown(function () {
    padFour.load()
    padFour.play()
  })

  $('.pad-5').mousedown(function () {
    padFive.load()
    padFive.play()
  })

  $('.pad-6').mousedown(function () {
    padSix.load()
    padSix.play()
  })

  $('.pad-7').mousedown(function () {
    padSeven.load()
    padSeven.play()
  })

  $('.pad-8').mousedown(function () {
    padEight.load()
    padEight.play()
  })

  $('.pad-9').mousedown(function () {
    padNine.load()
    padNine.play()
  })

  $('.pad-10').mousedown(function () {
    padTen.load()
    padTen.play()
  })

  $('.pad-11').mousedown(function () {
    padEleven.load()
    padEleven.play()
  })

  $('.pad-12').mousedown(function () {

>     padTewlve.load()
>     padTewlve.play()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    padTwelve.load()
    padTwelve.play()
```

  })
})
```

## Publishing

Once you're done making this, how about sharing it in the Slack ship channel and also with me @Emmanuel Haankwenda on Hack Club Slack.

## Resources

- jQuery Scripting API Docs (https://api.jquery.com/)
- HTML Docs (https://www.w3schools.com/html/)
- CSS Docs (https://www.w3schools.com/css/)
- JavaScript Docs (https://www.w3schools.com/js/)
- Audio Object (https://www.w3schools.com/JSREF/dom_obj_audio.asp)

## Inspiration

> To finish off, I'd like to leave you with some amazing customized Drum Pad Machines/Beat Makers by programmers out their.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To finish off, here’s some amazing, more customized drum pad machines/beat makers made by other developers:
```

- Solo Learn Code Playfround by Andrew Siachos (https://code.sololearn.com/WfYyBdZwc6qn/#html)
- Music Pad Controller with Keyboard (https://endertech.com/blog/music-pad-javascript-html-css)
- My favorite one is Make Music with JavaScript by Dev Ed on Youtube(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8T4SCksjrQ4).

> We are finally done with our project and you can go own ahead and customize it and add more things to it hope you had fun creating this with me.

Reviewer: This sentence is missing some punctuation/feels overloaded

---
name: 'Beat Maker'
description: 'Make a web drumpad/beat maker in HTML/CSS & jQuery'
author: '@emmanuel39hanks'
---

# Creating a DrumPad/Beat Maker in HTML, CSS & jQuery

![Beat Maker Preview](https://i.ibb.co/r0JLpWB/Annotation-2020-09-20-200719.png)

_^ Preview of the DrumPad/Beat Maker we are going to be creating_

In this workshop, you’re going to create a drum pad/beatmaker that plays actual sounds, in less than 230 lines of code.

[Link to demo](https://BeatMaker.emmanuel39hanks.repl.co)

## Getting started

We’re going to be using HTML, CSS & jQuery(https://jquery.com/)(is a JavaScript library used to change elements on a webpage).

> Get started by creating an HTML/CSS & JavaScript project on repl.it. Once your project is setup, navigate to the `index.html` file. Then, just before the end of your `<head>` tag, import jQuery:

Reviewer 2: Link to repl.it

.box {
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
  margin: 10px 0;
  box-shadow: 0 8px 6px -6px black;
  background-color: #444;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  font-size: 20px;
  color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.4);
  user-select: none;
}

.pad-1,
.pad-2,
.pad-3,
.pad-4,
.pad-5,
.pad-6,
.pad-7,
.pad-8,
.pad-9,
.pad-10,
.pad-11,
.pad-12 {
  border: 2px solid;
}
```

If you run your code nothing has changed, that because we are using class to group our HTML elements, let's go back to our `index.html` and to our `<div>` we will want to do the following:

```html
<div class="pad">
  <div class="box pad-1">A</div>
  <div class="box pad-2">B</div>
  <div class="box pad-3">C</div>
  <div class="box pad-4">D</div>

  <div class="box pad-5">E</div>
  <div class="box pad-6">F</div>
  <div class="box pad-7">G</div>
  <div class="box pad-8">H</div>

  <div class="box pad-9">I</div>
  <div class="box pad-10">J</div>
  <div class="box pad-11">K</div>
  <div class="box pad-12">L</div>
</div>
```

![Preview of HTML with layout CSS applied, the pads are in a grid but all gray](https://i.ibb.co/TLFcmvk/aasdasd.png)
And when we run our code again it should look like this.

> We are now going to add colors, make hovering effects, unactive or active states, to make it stand out and make the experience better, we will do that with the following code:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We are now going to add colors, make hovering effects, inactive or active states, to make it stand out and make the experience better, we will do that with the following code:
```
